\chapter{Conclusions}
\label{ch:conclusions}

This dissertation has developed a study of the ionization of the
H$_{2}$O molecule valence orbitals under an electric dc field in which
\textsc{nhqm} techniques have been implemented. Additionally, a
systematic study of the \textsc{ati} spectrum for a model-He atom was
carried out following an extension of the \textsc{sfa}. In the
following subsections more detailed and summarized conclusions are
offered for these studies.

\section{H$_{2}$O in an external dc field}
\label{ch:h2o_results}

\subsection*{$\mathrm{PDE}$ system with a modified $\mathrm{ECS}$}

% describe the approach in a few sentences

% state that for the 1b1 and 1b2 mos, a spherical effective potential
% was used, and for the 3a1 mo a dependen with the polar angle was
% included 

We have carried out a study of the H$_{2}$O valence orbitals,
$1b_{1}$, $1b_{2}$, and $3a_{1}$, in the presence of an external
electric dc field applied along the symmetry axis of the molecule,
$\mathbf{F} = F_{0}\hat{z}$. As a starting point, an orbital-dependent
effective potential was extracted from a self-consistent solution for
the H$_{2}$O \textsc{mo}s expressed as a single-centre Slater-type
orbital~\cite{Moccia_1964}. The $1b_{1}$ and $1b_{2}$ orbitals were
approximated by spherical orbitals and expressed as linear
combinations of $2p_{x}$ and $2p_{y}$ orbitals, respectively. In the
case of the $3a_{1}$ orbital, $s-p$ type Slater orbitals were
considered in addition to retaining the $2p_{z}$ parts of the
\textsc{mo} expansion.

A modified \textsc{ecs} technique was applied to the radial
coordinates in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with orbital-dependent
effective potential for each \textsc{mo} as part of solving the
complex eigenvalue problem to obtain the Stark resonance
parameters. By means of a phase factor the scaling was turned on
gradually beyond some distance from the origin of coordinates. The
\textsc{ecs} parameters, $r_{\mathrm{s}}$ and $\Delta r$, as well as
the asymptotic scaling angle, $\chi_{\mathrm{s}}$, were optimized in
order to guarantee a minimum of two to three significant digits in the
solutions. The tunneling ionization and over-barrier ionization
regimes were explored by finding a numerical solution to the
\textsc{pde} system resulting from separating the complex-valued wave
function into real and imaginary parts~\cite{sarias_2016,sarias_2017}.


% 1b1/1b2 results
The resonance parameters that describe the ionization process,
resonance position and width, were explored over a wide range of
electric field strengths. It was demonstrated how an increase of the
field strength beyond a critical point in the over-barrier region
leads to a crossing between the ionization rates of the $1b_{1}$ and
$1b_{2}$ orbitals. Additional observations of the spherical effective
potential for different field strengths were carried out in order to
shed some light on the interpretation of this behaviour.

% 3a1 results
For the $3a_{1}$ \textsc{mo}, the orientation of the external field
was extended to negative values, that is the dc field pointing towards
to oxygen atom fixed at the origin. The relationship of the resonance
paratemers (position and width) to the neighboring valence orbitals
$1b_{1}$ and $1b_{2}$ was explored. Interestingly, the $3a_{1}$
orbital was found to ionize more easily than $1b_{1}$ or $1b_{2}$
irrespective of the field direction along $\hat{z}$.

These calculations should serve as motivation for further studies of
molecular orbitals of water using more sophisticated wave
functions. Without diminishing the results presented here, this work
needs to be extended to deal with laser fields for practical
applications. For the hydrogen molecular ion this was done using
Floquet theory~\cite{Tsog_H2mol_ac_2013}, where some parallels were
found between monochromatic \textsc{ac} and the \textsc{dc}
cases. Experimental observations of strong-field ionization of water
vapour are available for short, intense laser
pulses~\cite{exp_h2o_laser_2008,exp_h2o_laser_2014}. One needs to
solve the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation for realistic
simulations of these~\cite{Farrell_2011,Falge_2010}.


\subsection*{Partial-wave approach with a $\mathrm{CAP}$}
% partial-wave + CAP approach

Ionization of H$_{2}$O valence orbitals exposed to an external dc
field was addressed from an alternative perspective as well. The
hydrogen components of a three-centre model potential introduced in a
study of ion collisions with water
molecules~\cite{illescas_modelV_2011} was expressed as a partial-wave
expansion in a basis of spherical harmonics~\cite{marko_partialwave}
truncated at $l = l_{\mathrm{max}}$. This representation of the model
potential in terms of partial waves resulted in a system of radial
equations of dimensions proportional to the size of the expansion. The
system of coupled ordinary differential equations for the different
$(l,m)$ channels was solved numerically by implementing a
finite-element \emph{Mathematica} method. The precision of the
calculations was modified accordingly as the number $l_{\mathrm{max}}$
increased and, consequently, the number of $(l,m)$ channels.

The field-free problem was addressed and orbital energies for the
valence \textsc{mo}s were obtained for increasing sizes of the
partial-wave expansion. In a comparison with the solutions for the
model potential as quoted in a Gaussian orbital basis
approach~\cite{illescas_2015}, the partial-wave expansion results were
found to approximate the eigenvalues from above. The outermost orbital
$1b_{1}$, with its density perpendicular to the molecular plane and
little overlap with the hydrogen atoms, indicated a fast convergence
with $l_{\mathrm{max}}$. On the other hand, for the more deeply bound
\textsc{mo} $1b_{2}$, with a considerable amount of electron density
along each O$-$H bond, convergence with $l_{\mathrm{max}}$ was
noticeably slower. Comparison with the eigenvalues obtained for an
exchange-only \textsc{opm} calculation~\cite{opm_2007} was shown as
well.

The complex-valued resonance energies were computed by including a
quadratic \textsc{cap} that was turned on at a distance such that the
effective potential had reached its simple asymptotic form. The
eigenvalues were determined by implementing the Riss-Meyer correction
scheme~\cite{RissMeyer_1993}. Comparison of the calculated dc shifts
and decay rates with the previous results based on a single-centre
\textsc{scf} orbital dependent effective
potential~\cite{sarias_2016,sarias_2017}, for which azimuthal symmetry
was assumed, indicated that the partial-wave expansion of the model
potential has more geometric flexibility in the resonance solution,
and therefore shows more prominent features in the behaviour of dc
shift and decay rate $\Gamma$ as a function of the field strength and
field orientation.







% results from comparing the field-free problem with other calculations
% overall remarks of the numerical results, comparison with ECS technique



\section{Above threshold ionization for laser-atom interactions}
\label{ch:ati_results}


























































%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "thesis"
%%% End:
